# A Vipassana Journal

[06/25/12]
[7:38am]
Where to begin? I have been at the Dhamma Vipassana Meditation Center for the last 5 and a half days. What a rich experience. I want to write all about it, and keep more of a journal. Then I want to put it all up on the internet as a blog post for others to read/ I think I would title it: "How to Gain Mastery of Your Mind".
There's so much to say I don't even know where to start. [My blue pens keep running out of ink.]
I want to say how it is kind of like a vacation for adults, were one is challenged the entire time.
Mr. Goenka, the instructor talks to us through fancy flat screen TV's every night. Well it's more of a lecture than a conversation. They call that "Discourse," and it is every night from about 7:15 - 8:30. It is typically very entertaining: both because it is interesting and at times very humorous. Mr. Goenka tells funny jokes.
The whole thing is a little odd because it is simply pre-recorded videos played off a DVD, but still Mr. Goenka seems to be a presence in the room. e sometimes seems to know exactly what I am thinking, or anticipate the most pressing questions of the day.
He will say things like "You have now completed Day 2, a very difficult day*," or "you probably worry because you can't sit still for very long, but by Day 4 you will be able to sit the entire hour without moving." This prediction came true.
He said in the discourse of Day 3 that he is 67 years old, and the videos are labeled that they were recorded in 1991, which would make him 88 today. I don't know if he is still alive; I want to ask the Assistant Teachers but I don't know if it would be appropriate. The whole experience is a little like *The Wizard of Oz*, with Mr. Goenka as the Wizard, the image of a head that speaks to us, calms our fears, and anticipate our doubts. I want to find the man behind the curtain. It must be aid that Mr. Goenka often dismisses mysticism; he makes no claims to supernatural powers, simply a lot of practice with Vipassana.
It's 7:55a now and I have to run to the first Group Session of Day 5. More later!
[10:45a]
{3}
Okay Journal, I'm back. I'm going to start keeping track of the number of complete Run-Throughs of the bdy examination technique of Vipassana. I'm not going to count it if I don't finish, to encourage completion.
I did my first one during the 2-hour marathon Vipassana session of day 4, 3:00p-5pm. Then I had to rest in the grass, I was so tired and sore. The Course Manager asked me if I was alright while I laid there; I could barely respond that I simply exhausted. I wish I knew his name. It makes me feel uncomfortable that I interact and talk with him so much, probably next most of anyone here after the Burmese teacher, but I don't know his name. I also don't know the name of the Assistnt teachers, although al 4 names (2 men, 2 women) are posted by the dining area. But they are very foreign and I can't even tell which two are masculine names, and two are the females, let alone which one belongs to the Burmese teacher and which to the Indian one
Anyway..., I got lost while I was trying to recount how many fully Vipassana exercises I had done. I couldn't do any during the 6-7 group session last night, I was so sure and tired and distracted.
